MANIFEST
========

dBScript.sml : develops a theory of (untyped) de-Bruijn terms.

ncScript.sml : builds a theory of name-carrying terms, where terms are
               identified up to alpha-conversion.  This development
               underlies the paper

                "5 Axioms of Alpha Conversion",
                 Andy Gordon and Tom Melham,
                 Proceedings of TPHOLs'96, Springer LNCS 1125.

          --------------------------------------------------

Most of the remaining files are the basis of the development described
in

                "Mechanising Hankin and Barendregt using the
                 Gordon-Melham axioms"
                Michael Norrish
                Proceedings of the Merlin 2003 Workshop

and in

                "Mechanising \lambda-calculus using a classical first
                 order theory of terms with permutations"
                Michael Norrish
                In "Higher Order and Symbolic Computation",
                   19:169-195, 2006.



basic_swapScript.sml :
               Very basic theory of swaps over strings (the swapstr
               constant), and permutations (which take a list of pairs
               of strings to swap).  Also defines the NEW constant,
               which is used everywhere (including in the dB and nc
               developments above).

NEWLib.{sig,sml} :
               simple tactics to use with the NEW constant.

swapScript.sml :
               The theory of permutations (over strings, sets, and
               importantly, terms).  Proof of a recursion principle
               for functions over terms.  (This work is described in
               "Recursive function definition for terms with binders",
               Michael Norrish.  TPHOLs'04, LNCS 3223.)

binderLib.{sig,sml} :
               Tools for doing proofs with terms that include binders,
               including function definition and facilities from
               NEWLib.

q{term,lterm}Script.ml :
               script files that establish the types of lambda
               calculus terms, and lambda calculus terms with labelled
               redexes.  In both cases, the types are established by
               performing quotients.

gm{term,lterm}Script.sml
               script files that build the types of lambda calculus
               terms, and lambda calculus terms with labelled redexes.
               The first is built on the type from ncScript above (it
               loses the CON constructor), augmented with the
               recursion theorem from swapScript.  The second builds
               the labelled redex type in rather involved fashion by
               carving out a tricksy subset of the nc type.

chap2Script.sml :
               mechanisation of chapter 2 of Hankin's "Lambda calculi:
               a guide for computer scientists"

chap3Script.sml :
               mechanisation of much of chapter 3 of Hankin with bits
               of Barendregt's chapter 3 thrown in too

chap11_1Script.sml :
               mechanisation of section 11.1 from Barendregt's "The
               lambda calculus: its syntax and semantics"

term_posnsScript.sml :
               establishes a type for labelling reductions, and
               positions within terms more generally

finite_developmentsScript.sml :
               Barendregt's proof of the finite-ness of developments
               (section 11.2), mechanising this notion as well as that
               of residuals.

standardisationScript.sml :
               Barendregt's proof of the standardisation theorem, from
               section 11.4.


          --------------------------------------------------

sttScript.sml :
               Proofs suggested by Randy Pollack:
               1.  A proof that a typing relation for the simply typed
                   lambda calculus (the details of which are sketched)
                   satisfies a weakening property: if a term has a
                   type in a context G, then it has the same type in a
                   "wider" context G'.
               2.  A proof that this original typing relation is
                   equivalent to another relation, where the second
                   relation has an infinitary (universally quantified)
                   hypothesis in the rule for the abstraction case.

          --------------------------------------------------

diagsScript.sml :
               a type of rewriting style diagrams and how rewriting
               relations do or do not satisfy them.  Also a proof that
               "diagram-satisfaction" is preserved and reflected by
               strong onto homomorphisms.  (This is discussed in the
               NICTA/JAIST technical report "Structural preservation
               and reflection of diagrams", and is joint work with
               Rene Vestergaard.)

raw_syntaxScript.sml :
               proof that a raw syntax of lambda terms (not identified
               up to alpha equivalence) with its own notions of
               substitution, alpha equivalence and beta reduction can
               indeed be collapsed into the type of terms from
               termTheory.  Use diagrams to show confluence for
               beta-alpha reduction at this raw level by appeal to
               result in chap3Theory.

string_numScript.sml :
               a proof by construction that strings and numbers are in
               bijection

pure_dBScript.sml :
               mechanisation of the type of "pure" de Bruijn terms,
               following Tobias Nipkow's paper "More Church-Rosser
               Proofs".  (They are "pure" in contrast with Andy
               Gordon's de Bruijn terms, which have indices for bound
               variables and strings for free variables.)

               Demonstration that this type and its notions of beta-
               and eta-reduction are isomorphic to the quotiented type
               in termTheory.
